1.General purpose instances
everything is balaced in this

2.compute oprimised instances

3.memory optimise instances

4.Accelerated computing instances


5.Storage optimized instances

EC2 purchase Types:
1.On-Demand
2.Amazon EC2 Savings Plans:
    72% lesser cost to on-demand rates but we have to pay for certain fix estimated usages
    beyond the limit is take price based on on-demand services
3.Reserved Instances:
    we buys this for 1 to 3 years and after we have to renew or terminate else have to pay based on on-demand rates

4.Spot instances:
    90% cheaper than other and allocation is remove by only giving 2 minutes prior warning 
    good for batch usages

5.Dedicated Hosts:
    Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 



EC2 auto scaling:
    Within Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling, you can use two approaches: dynamic scaling and predictive scaling.

    Dynamic scaling responds to changing demand. 

    Predictive scaling automatically schedules the right number of Amazon EC2 instances based on predicted demand.


Auto Scaling Group:
    three parameters needed to set:
    1:minimun
    2:maximum
    2:desired

Elastic Load Balancing is the AWS service that automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances. 

Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)

Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)

Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, high-performance container management system that enables you to run and scale containerized applications on AWS. 

Selecting a Region
1.Compliance with data governance and legal requirements
2.Proximity to your customers
3.Available services within a Region
4.Pricing

Availabilty Zones
In single region we have a multiple data centers denoted by 1a,1b,2c etc

Edge Location
Instead of requiring your customers to get their data from Brazil, you can cache a copy locally at an edge location that is close to your customers in China.

Ways to Interact with AWS Services
AWS Management Console
AWS Command Line Interface
Software development kits (SDKs)



AWS Elastic Beanstalk
With AWS Elastic Beanstalk, you provide code and configuration settings, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys the resources necessary to perform the following tasks:

Adjust capacity

Load balancing

Automatic scaling

Application health monitoring

AWS CloudFormation
With AWS CloudFormation, you can treat your infrastructure as code. This means that you can build an environment by writing lines of code instead of using the AWS Management Console to individually provision resources.

AWS CloudFormation provisions your resources in a safe, repeatable manner, enabling you to frequently build your infrastructure and applications without having to perform manual actions or write custom scripts. It determines the right operations to perform when managing your stack and rolls back changes automatically if it detects errors.


Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC)
Internet gateway
To allow public traffic from the internet to access your VPC, you attach an internet gateway to the VPC.

Virtual private gateway
Here’s an example of how a virtual private gateway works. You can think of the internet as the road between your home and the coffee shop. Suppose that you are traveling on this road with a bodyguard to protect you. You are still using the same road as other customers, but with an extra layer of protection. 

AWS Direct Connect is a service that enables you to establish a dedicated private connection between your data center and a VPC.  


Subnets and Network Access Control Lists
Subnets
A subnet is a section of a VPC in which you can group resources based on security or operational needs. Subnets can be public or private. 

Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)
A network access control list (ACL) is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.

Security Groups
A security group is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for an Amazon EC2 instance.

